docs: update docs to reflect rai on pypi and interfaces on apt (#612)
RobotecAI/rai: docs/setup/install.md

# Quick setup guide

Before going further, make sure you have ROS 2 (jazzy or humble) installed and sourced on your system.

!!! tip "Docker images"

    RAI has experimental docker images. See the [docker](setup_docker.md) for
    instructions.

There are two ways to start using RAI:

1. Installing RAI using pip (recommended for end users)

2. Setting up a developer environment using poetry (recommended for developers)

## Installing RAI

1.  Install core functionality:

    ```bash

>     pip install rai-core

Reviewer: on ubuntu24.04 this will fail, because python packages can't be installed outside of virtual envs. 

One solution would to enable system-wide install rai using `sudo apt install python3-rai-core`?

Other would be to mention that virtualenv should be created. But I am not sure if we need to educate users how to install python packages in ubuntu 24.04, but for someone inexperienced with python it might be a blocker.

See https://www.reddit.com/r/Ubuntu/comments/1eo7zyt/help_with_installing_python_packages_on_ubuntu/

Author: I don't think we should educate the user on how to use virtual environments...
On the other hand, since expanding PYTHONPATH is needed for it to work, i will add a quick note on the virtualenvs and pythonpath.

Author: Actually, this will only be required if rai script is ran with ros2 run or ros2 launch.

    ```

2.  Initialize the global configuration file:

    ```bash
    rai-config-init
    ```

3.  Optionally install ROS 2 dependencies:

    ```bash
    sudo apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-rai-interfaces
    ```

!!! important "Package availability"

    `rai_openset` and `rai_nomad` are not yet available through pip. If your workflow relies on openset detection or NoMaD integration, please refer to the
    [developer environment instructions](#setting-up-developer-environment) setup.

>     `rai_interfaces` is available through rosdep. However, due to package distribution delays, the latest version may not be immediately available. If you encounter missing imports, please build `rai_interfaces` from [source](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai_interfaces).

Reviewer: how to "build from source" might not be clear. I would document this process. (clone to src -> colcon build -> source workspace)

Author: I will add the tutorial in rai_interfaces github repo.

Reviewer: resolved in: https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai_interfaces/pull/2#pullrequestreview-2888500846

# Quick setup guide

Before going further, make sure you have ROS 2 (jazzy or humble) installed and sourced on your system.

!!! tip "Docker images"

    RAI has experimental docker images. See the [docker](setup_docker.md) for
    instructions.

There are two ways to start using RAI:

1. Installing RAI using pip (recommended for end users)

2. Setting up a developer environment using poetry (recommended for developers)

## Installing RAI

> ??? tip "Virtual environment"

Reviewer: I would make it untoggled by default

>     We recommend installing RAI in a virtual environment (e.g., virtualenv, uv, or poetry) to keep your dependencies organized. Make sure to use the same version of python as the one used for ROS 2 (typically `python3.10` for Humble and `python3.12` for Jazzy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We recommend installing RAI in a virtual environment (e.g., [virtualenv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html), [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/), or [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/)) to keep your dependencies organized. Make sure to use the same version of python as the one used for ROS 2 (typically `python3.10` for Humble and `python3.12` for Jazzy).
```

    When installing RAI in a virtual environment (as opposed to the system interpreter), you need to expand the PYTHONPATH to include the virtual environment's site-packages directory.

>     Here's how to do it when RAI is installed via git clone: [setup_shell.sh](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai/blob/245efa95cdb83a81294bc28da814962bff84be20/setup_shell.sh#L32)

Reviewer: This will only work if virtualenv is created with the same python version as ros2 native python.
I think it would be good to mention that as well. Python version used in ros2 can be different depending on ubuntu version (u22-python3.10, u24-python3.12). This can be checked using:
```
find /opt/ros/${ROS_DISTRO}/lib/ -type d -name "python3.*" | rev | cut -f1 -d '/' | rev
```
.
Alse, I tried installing rai in uv virtualenv and had such error, because uv used python3.11 by default. To make it work I had to use python3.10 explicitely:
```
cd workdir
uv venv --python 3.10
uv add rai-core
```
And I managed to run [react.py](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai/blob/development/examples/agents/react.py) example using:
```
cd workdir
source .venv/bin/activate
python react.py
```

Author: Fokin hell m8. A simplistic way of installing rai is getting super complex. Nevertheless, yeah, it should be mentioned

Author: Done

>     If you plan to use ROS 2 commands (`ros2 run` or `ros2 launch`), you'll need to add your virtual environment's Python packages to your system's Python path. This step is only necessary for ROS 2 integration - if you're just running RAI directly with Python, you can skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you plan to use ROS 2 commands (`ros2 run` or `ros2 launch`), you'll need to add your virtual environment's Python packages to your `$PYTHONPATH`. This step is only necessary for ROS 2 integration - if you're just running RAI directly with Python, you can skip this step.
```

1.  Install core functionality:

    ```bash
    pip install rai-core
    ```

2.  Initialize the global configuration file:

    ```bash
    rai-config-init
    ```

3.  Optionally install ROS 2 dependencies:

    ```bash
    sudo apt install ros-${ROS_DISTRO}-rai-interfaces
    ```

!!! important "Package availability"

    `rai_openset` and `rai_nomad` are not yet available through pip. If your workflow relies on openset detection or NoMaD integration, please refer to the
    [developer environment instructions](#setting-up-developer-environment) setup.

>     `rai_interfaces` is available through rosdep. However, due to package distribution delays, the latest version may not be immediately available. If you encounter missing imports, please build `rai_interfaces` from [source](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai_interfaces).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `rai_interfaces` is available as `apt` package. However, due to package distribution delays, the latest version may not be immediately available. If you encounter missing imports, please build `rai_interfaces` from [source](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai_interfaces).
```
